---
layout:     post
title:      "Spring Learning Notes"
subtitle:   "Building Java Projects with Gradle"
date:       2016-09-21 14:33:00+0800
author:     "ZanXus"
header-img: "img/blog/header/post-bg-01.jpg"
thumbnail: /img/blog/thumbs/thumb01.png
tags: [gradle]
category: [spring]
comments: true
share: true
---
#  Set up the project

## Now we assume that the project named gradle-guides,`cd gradle-guides`,and `mkdir -p src/main/java/hello`.

## Within the `src/main/java/hello` directory, you can create any Java classes you want. For simplicity’s sake and for consistency with the rest of this guide, Spring recommends that you create two classes: HelloWorld.java and Greeter.java .

## `gradle-guides/src/main/java/hello/HelloWorld.java`
 
~~~ java
package hello;

public class HelloWorld {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    Greeter greeter = new Greeter();
    System.out.println(greeter.sayHello());
  }
}
~~~

## `gradle-guides/src/main/java/hello/Greeter.java`
~~~ java
package hello;

public class Greeter {
  public String sayHello() {
    return "Hello world!";
  }
}
~~~

---

# Install Gradle

## There are many ways to install gradle.Just follow the link [https://gradle.org/gradle-download/](https://gradle.org/gradle-download/) and choose your favorite way.My gradle version is 3.0,however the day after my downloading it updated to 3.1 and still the latest version from now on,but i think it does not matter too much.

## If you choose to download and unzip the binary file to your computer,you need to config the gradle environments.In linux ,you should add gradle variables:`GRADLE_HOME` and `PATH` in `/etc/profile` just like java or maven variables.

## To test the Gradle installation, run Gradle from the command-line:`gradle`

## If all goes well, you see a welcome message:
~~~ shell
$ gradle
:help

Welcome to Gradle 3.0.

To run a build, run gradle <task> ...

To see a list of available tasks, run gradle tasks

To see a list of command-line options, run gradle --help

To see more detail about a task, run gradle help --task <task>

BUILD SUCCESSFUL

Total time: 3.735 secs
~~~

## You now have Gradle installed.Next create `build.gradle` file in the `gradle-guides` directory and give it one line:
~~~ gradle
apply plugin: 'java'
~~~

## This single line in the build configuration brings a significant amount of power. Run **gradle tasks** again, and you see new tasks added to the list, including tasks for building the project, creating JavaDoc, and running tests.
   
## You’ll use the **gradle build** task frequently. This task compiles, tests, and assembles the code into a JAR file. You can run it like this:
~~~ shell
gradle build
~~~

## After a few seconds, "BUILD SUCCESSFUL" indicates that the build has completed.

## To see the results of the build effort, take a look in the build folder. Therein you’ll find several directories, including these three notable folders:

* _classes_. The project’s compiled .class files.
* _reports_. Reports produced by the build (such as test reports).
* _libs_. Assembled project libraries (usually JAR and/or WAR files).

## The classes folder has .class files that are generated from compiling the Java code. Specifically, you should find HelloWorld.class and Greeter.class.
   
## At this point, the project doesn’t have any library dependencies, so there’s nothing in the dependency_cache folder.

## The reports folder should contain a report of running unit tests on the project. Because the project doesn’t yet have any unit tests, that report will be uninteresting.

## The libs folder should contain a JAR file that is named after the project’s folder. Further down, you’ll see how you can specify the name of the JAR and its version.

---

# Declare dependencies

## The simple Hello World sample is completely self-contained and does not depend on any additional libraries. Most applications, however, depend on external libraries to handle common and/or complex functionality.

## For example, suppose that in addition to saying "Hello World!", you want the application to print the current date and time. You could use the date and time facilities in the native Java libraries, but you can make things more interesting by using the Joda Time libraries.
   
## First, change HelloWorld.java to look like this:
~~~ java
package hello;

import org.joda.time.LocalTime;

public class HelloWorld {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    LocalTime currentTime = new LocalTime();
    System.out.println("The current local time is: " + currentTime);

    Greeter greeter = new Greeter();
    System.out.println(greeter.sayHello());
  }
}
~~~

## Here `HelloWorld` uses Joda Time’s `LocalTime` class to get and print the current time.

## If you ran `gradle build` to build the project now, the build would fail because you have not declared Joda Time as a compile dependency in the build.
   
## For starters, you need to add a source for 3rd party libraries.
~~~ gradle
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}
~~~

## The `repositories` block indicates that the build should resolve its dependencies from the Maven Central repository. Gradle leans heavily on many conventions and facilities established by the Maven build tool, including the option of using Maven Central as a source of library dependencies.
   
## Now that we’re ready for 3rd party libraries, let’s declare some.
~~~ gradle
sourceCompatibility = 1.8
targetCompatibility = 1.8

dependencies {
    compile "joda-time:joda-time:2.2"
    testCompile "junit:junit:4.12"
}
~~~

## With the `dependencies` block, you declare a single dependency for Joda Time. Specifically, you’re asking for (reading right to left) version 2.2 of the joda-time library, in the joda-time group.

## Another thing to note about this dependency is that it is a `compile` dependency, indicating that it should be available during compile-time (and if you were building a WAR file, included in the /WEB-INF/libs folder of the WAR). Other notable types of dependencies include:
* `providedCompile`. Required dependencies for compiling the project code, but that will be provided at runtime by a container running the code (for example, the Java Servlet API).
* `testCompile`. Dependencies used for compiling and running tests, but not required for building or running the project’s runtime code.

## Finally, let’s specify the name for our JAR artifact.
~~~ gradle
jar {
    baseName = 'gradle-guides'
    version =  '0.1.0'
}
~~~

## The `jar` block specifies how the JAR file will be named. In this case, it will render `gradle-guides-0.1.0.jar`.

## Now if you run `gradle build`, Gradle should resolve the Joda Time dependency from the Maven Central repository and the build will succeed.

---

# Build your project with Gradle Wrapper

## The Gradle Wrapper is the preferred way of starting a Gradle build. It consists of a batch script for Windows and a shell script for OS X and Linux. These scripts allow you to run a Gradle build without requiring that Gradle be installed on your system. 

## Run the following command to download and initialize the wrapper scripts:
~~~ shell
gradle wrapper
~~~

## After this task completes, you will notice a few new files. The two scripts are in the root of the folder, while the wrapper jar and properties files have been added to a new `gradle/wrapper` folder.
~~~ shell
$ la
total 32K
drwxrwxr-x 8 zanxus zanxus 4.0K 9月  22 18:40 build
-rw-rw-r-- 1 zanxus zanxus  329 9月  22 17:08 build.gradle
drwxrwxr-x 3 zanxus zanxus 4.0K 9月  22 18:40 gradle
drwxrwxr-x 3 zanxus zanxus 4.0K 9月  22 18:40 .gradle
-rwxrwxr-x 1 zanxus zanxus 5.2K 9月  22 18:40 gradlew
-rw-rw-r-- 1 zanxus zanxus 2.3K 9月  22 18:40 gradlew.bat
drwxrwxr-x 3 zanxus zanxus 4.0K 9月  22 14:40 src
~~~

## The Gradle Wrapper is now available for building your project. Add it to your version control system, and everyone that clones your project can build it just the same. It can be used in the exact same way as an installed version of Gradle. Run the wrapper script to perform the build task, just like you did previously:
~~~ shell
./gradlew build
~~~

## The first time you run the wrapper for a specified version of Gradle, it downloads and caches the Gradle binaries for that version. The Gradle Wrapper files are designed to be committed to source control so that anyone can build the project without having to first install and configure a specific version of Gradle.

## To make this code runnable, we can use gradle’s `application` plugin. Add this to your `build.gradle` file.
~~~ gradle
apply plugin: 'application'

mainClassName = 'hello.HelloWorld'
~~~

## Then run the app!
~~~
$ ./gradlew run 
:compileJava UP-TO-DATE
:processResources UP-TO-DATE
:classes UP-TO-DATE
:run
The current local time is: 18:46:01.066
Hello world!

BUILD SUCCESSFUL

Total time: 5.175 secs
~~~

## To wrap things up for this guide, here is the completed `build.gradle` file:

## `build.gradle`
~~~ gradle
apply plugin: 'java'
apply plugin: 'eclipse'
apply plugin: 'application'

mainClassName = 'hello.HelloWorld'

// tag::repositories[]
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}
// end::repositories[]

// tag::jar[]
jar {
    baseName = 'gs-gradle'
    version =  '0.1.0'
}
// end::jar[]

// tag::dependencies[]
sourceCompatibility = 1.8
targetCompatibility = 1.8

dependencies {
    compile "joda-time:joda-time:2.2"
    testCompile "junit:junit:4.12"
}
// end::dependencies[]

// tag::wrapper[]
// end::wrapper[]
~~~

> # There are many start/end comments embedded here. This makes it possible to extract bits of the build file into this guide for the detailed explanations above. You don’t need them in your production build file.

---

# Summary

## Now we have created a simple yet effective Gradle build file for building Java projects.

## Sources reference from [https://spring.io/guides/gs/gradle/](https://spring.io/guides/gs/gradle/)

---

